Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to work on the professor detail screen and we want to display any related
posts.
Let me explain.
So currently, if we're on a blog post that uses the featured Professor Blacktip, there's a link to
their detailed screen and on the professor detail screen down here, we just would want to link to any
blog posts that have featured this professor.
So, for example, this is what the finished product will look like just down at the very bottom of
the regular content.
We're going to dynamically add this to the content from within our plugin.
OK, so to make that happen, let's jump into our text editor.
We're interested in our main file so featured, Professor, be within our construct function.
We're going to add a filter to the content.
So below these add action lines, we'll just say add filter semicolon.
The name of the filter hooks or quotes is the underscore content and then comma, we just give it a
function.
So let's use the array callable syntax dollar.
Sign this.
We get to make up a method name, maybe I'll call it add related posts.
OK, now let's just go create a method with that matching name.
So right here we can just say function, add related posts, parentheses, curly brackets in the parentheses.
We want to be sure to include a parameter because WordPress is going to pass the original content into
our function and then that's how we can modify it.
So right here we'll say dollar sign.
I'll just call it content.
OK, and now in the body of our function, we only want to modify the content and add something onto
the end of it, only if several conditions are true.
So we would want to be on a single detail screen for a professor.
We would want to be in the loop and we would want it to be the main query.
So in our function, I would just write an if statement parentheses curly brackets for the condition.
I would just say if is singular in these parentheses, we can even say quotes, professor.
So this will only return true if you're on the details single screen and it's the professor post type.
So this is a useful check after that, let's say.
And and if you're in the loop and and is main query cool.
So if all of those things are true, then I would just want to return dollar content and then I would
want to concatenate on to the end of it.
Are related blog posts or the posts that have featured this professor?
Now the code that's going to actually output this will require us to write a query and then output a
little bit of HTML.
So it's going to be a fair amount of code and I don't necessarily want to include that in this top level
file.
So I actually want to tuck that away in a separate file just to stay organized.
So right here, I'm just going to call a function that doesn't even exist yet, but we can add it to
a new file.
So let's say maybe related posts, HTML parentheses to call it semicolon.
Right.
So overall, we're just returning the incoming starter content and then we're adding on something to
the end of it.
So this function that we're going to create should return a string of HTML while we're here in these
parentheses, why don't we pass the idea of the current professor post into this function so it can
do its job.
So in these parentheses we could just say get the IDE right so it will know which professor to look
up relationships for.
OK, finally, if this is not true, then just right below the if statement is still in our function,
we can just return the default content.
Cool.
At this point, let's go create a new separate file and create this function that we made up called
Related Posts HTML.
So I'll save this.
And in our plugin folder in the eye and see folder, I'll just create a new file, I'll name it.
Related posts html dot p p.
Let's jump into that brand new file.
He will enter.
Let's create a function with that name, so it was related posts, HTML parentheses, curly brackets
in the parentheses.
Let's have a parameter, I'll call it dollar sign I.D. So this will be the professor post that we want
to look up relationships for.
But before we go too far, let's first test things out to make sure that what we have so far is working
so within our function just as a test.
Let's return just a string of text and say hello from related file semicolon.
OK, let's save this.
And then we do need to go back into our main file and just require or loading this file up towards the
top.
So back in our main, up at the top, you can actually just duplicate this line.
We've already written this for the previous file that we included, so I'll just copy that.
You just need to change the file name.
So instead of generate Professor HTML, it's related posts html.
Let's give this a save and go test it out.
So if I refresh the professor detail screen, I'm hoping to see something right about here.
Very fresh.
Perfect.
Now we can work on outputting what we actually want.
So back in that new related posts HTML file, let's empty out our function.
We don't really want to return that.
And instead, let's begin with the query.
I'll create a variable you could name, but anything but I'll call it posts about this prof equals a
new instance of the WordPress class WP query.
We give that an array, let's drop down.
So I'm going to begin by saying posts per page.
And Arrow symbol set that to negative one, so just give me all of the posts in one trip karma, let's
say post type should just be the standard post type, right.
For blog posts, karma, let's say meta query, arrow symbol.
And you give that an array inside those parentheses, we can drop down.
And now really what you're giving, this is an array of other arrays, right.
Because you can query for multiple things at once.
So inside here, we only need to have one query, so we'll have one array.
And now before we write any further code, let's go look at our database so that it's crystal clear
what we're trying to do here.
So in the database, I'll go into the post metastable, select data, go to the very last page down
at the bottom.
OK, so I have featured Professor this row.
This is the blog post ID, this is the Professor Post ID.
So all together we're saying, hey, WordPress, give to us any blog posts right.
Where they have a piece of metadata associated with them, where the name of the meta is featured,
professor.
And its value is whatever the current professor posted is.
So the code way of phrasing everything that I just said inside this array would be to say Key should
be featured.
Professor comma, we're looking for an exact match so we can say compare arrow symbol should be equal
comma and then value arrow symbol.
This would just be dollar sign I'd write.
Whatever professor posted was passed into this function.
Cool.
So WP query will give us a list of any blog posts for this professor and now we just need to loop through
them.
Let's be sure to add a semicolon after these two closing parentheses here.
Woops, because Eve's code got confused and tried to indent.
So just like this below this, let's begin looping through that collection of posts.
I'll actually call Obbie start here, because remember, the job of this function is to return a string
of HTML.
So Obbie start and then we can also say WP reset post data call that finally we would return Obbie get
clean.
And then in between these two lines after Obbie start, we just actually start outputting something.
So let's begin with an if statement.
So we only want to output anything at all if there are related blog posts for this professor.
So I would say dollar sign posts about this prof.
Look inside it.
And again, that's Dasch greater than not equal greater than four found posts.
So this will only evaluate to true if there are posts.
If it is true, I want to output a bit of HTML here.
So let's exit here.
Enter here inside.
We can just have a paragraph tag and we'll say that the professor's name is mentioned in the following
posts.
We'd want their name to be dynamic so you could drop in to and just call the title.
OK, below the paragraph we would have an unordered list.
So you'll hit tab inside the unordered list.
We just want to loop through this and create one list item for each post.
So I would just go into PHP and while we're inside it, use while that while parentheses curly brackets
inside the while parentheses.
We can just say posts about this prof look inside it for have posts.
And as long as there are still more post to loop through than inside the while Loop will call posts
about this prof.
Look inside it for the post which is going to get all of the the title and the content, those types
of functions ready.
OK, now we're ready to actually spell out the elai tag.
So I would exit, we can go back into it here.
But on this line now I'll just say Elai hit tab inside there I'll have an HTML link.
So just a hit tab.
The ATRA value would just be the permalink so we could go into PHP called the permalink and then in
between the tags, this is the readable clickable text.
So that would just be the title of the blog post.
So go into B and call the title.
So this is what it looks like altogether.
If you want to pause the video for a moment to type this out, that's OK.
But I'm going to click save and test this out.
So back on my front end for the professor detail screen if I refresh.
Cool.
Dr. Barks.
A lot is mentioned in the following posts.
There's just one link.
Yet another post, but off camera, let me go back off camera, let me go add barks a lot to another
blog post so we can test this out.
OK, so I just added barks a lot to another one of my blog posts.
And if I go back to the barks lot detail, screen and refresh perfect.
We have a multi item list and that is going to bring not only this lesson, but this featured Professor
plug in to a close in our next lesson.
We're going to close out this JavaScript chapter by learning about localization or translations within
JavaScript.
Remember, in an earlier lesson, we already learned how to make our HP within our plugin easy to translate
into other languages.
Remember, for example, I translated a little bit of my into Spanish.
Well, we want to learn how to do that same thing from our JavaScript code.
Right.
And make it flexible.
So that's what we're going to cover in the next video.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.